# four

His standing desk was mess. Pumpkin, his girlfriend's Cocker Spaniel, lounged below the crumb waterfall as Alan O'Reilly took another disinterested bite of his tempeh bowl and wrote a text message in his permanent smart phone slouch. After years of database administration, Alan had refined his already introverted disposition into a samurai sword of stored procedures and shell scripts. When his display lit up early in the morning with a phone call from an unfamiliar 809 area code, he instinctively blocked the call and continued writing his text message. Later in the afternoon, an email indicated to him that the phone call and subsequent voicemail had been from his old fraternity brother Josh "The Martian" Martin. Josh was offering him a position as an Engineering Manager and a significant amount of equity in his new tech startup. The lifestyle sounded incredible. Unlimited vacation, free beer at the office, and dogs were allowed! He would no longer have to work remotely from his dimly lit apartment.

Demo day was rapidly approaching now, and the last 6 weeks of the accelerator program had been far more intense than Sally Greenfield and Josh Martin had anticipated. O'Reilly had agreed to come aboard as the Engineering Manager, but he couldn't make it out there for another month and a half. Josh took it upon himself to live up to the Light Speed motto of "Sell First Build Fast" and whipped up a prototype of the dream machine that probably caused at least three different types of cancer when actually used by a person. It looked like a microwave with a belt wrapped around it and consisted of only 1,000 lines of code, but the financial story made sense. If they sold 200 of them this year and 5000 next year, a second round of investment could value the company at approximately 10x the initial investment provided by Light Speed. 5 of the 6 weeks were spent ironing out their presentation for demo day and most of their budget went toward an elaborate video production which would show off features which hadn't yet been built. It was extremely exciting.

The dream machine demo had been a raging success, and the company raised twice the original amount of funding in the following week, through connections provided by Farnsworth. They only had one paying client using the prototype, but now that O'Reilly was in town, they had hired several software developers to build out version two of the product. The team worked night and day throughout the summer, taking breaks for ping pong occasionally, and drinking copious amounts of beer. The big joke on the team was the company across the street. They had been around for 20 years, long before Light Speed, and their plain office lacked all of the amenities that were available at the dream machine office. Josh, Alan, and the team got wasted one night and toilet papered the company across the street. It was a good bonding experience.


