# two

Lazuli Masterson was a prodigious cellist and had become a sensation in her community of Mccamish, Vermont by the age of four. In addition to music, she was a gifted artist and displayed advanced writing abilities. She began editing the Mccamish Bugle at the age of 13 and started a hedge fund with her earnings from the paper. Her own algorithm "Lazuli's latter" was the subject of her Master's thesis in semiotics which she completed at the age of 21. She had toyed with virtual reality headsets and wanted to create a seamless experience where people could enter a beautiful dreamlike state through the use of technology. Lazuli was visiting Aimesville in the Spring too, because she had read the same viral blog post.

Lazuli felt slightly more introverted than usual at these events. When she met Sally Greenfield, she was surprised that they had so much in common. Lazuli Masterson wasn't someone who wore a lot of makeup to get attention. She expressed pristine thoughts and built magnificent systems, which according to Sally Greenfield, was exactly what she and Josh Martin were doing with their startup. They needed talented engineers like her if they were going to change the world, she explained. Lazuli felt marginally more comfortable talking with Josh, and he was sincerely impressed with her ideas on artificial intelligence and virtual reality. When she revealed her idea for the dream machine, he was floored. The following morning his journal entry was focused on the economic reality of building a dream machine.

As she meandered through the forest in Vermont that summer, Lazuli continued thinking about the possibility of building the dream machine with Greenfield and Martin in Aimesville. What if the contraption could change the world, as Sally had suggested. She hadn't considered the impact that the device might have, because she had been so focused on the design, but it actually did have the potential to help people suffering from malaria, cure obesity, and end domestic violence. She drafted an immaculate hand written letter to the team in Aimesville, indicating that she had made her decision, and would be relocating to join them in the Fall.
